CASMCMS-9253 - known issues document for orphaned S3 image files. (#5735)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: troubleshooting/known_issues/ims_images_orphaned_in_s3.md

Reviewer: Need to link to this page at least from the `troubleshooting/README.md` file. Possibly also from `operations/README.md` if it makes sense. And possibly from any pages in `operations/image_management` where it would make sense.

Author: Fixed.

# Known Issue: IMS Images Orphaned in S3

> There was an issue where image files larger than 5Gb were not correctly deleted from S3 when the image

Reviewer: I notice the use of "was" here. If this was fixed at some point, we should specify when it was fixed (i.e. what version of either CSM or the relevant service -- and if we go with the service version, should tell them how to check the service version on their system).

Author: There is a fix checked into 1.6.1 and 1.7.0 and later. The fix does not clean up currently orphaned items, so this is still valid to run on these and later systems. I will add verbiage to that effect.

Reviewer: Yeah, I thought that was the case. I mainly meant that if we start out by saying "There was a bug", then a natural thing one will wonder is when it was fixed.

Author: Fixed.

was deleted through the IMS service. These artifacts are no longer referenced by IMS but are still
left in the S3 `boot-images` bucket and need to be deleted manually.

## Fix

These items can be deleted out of S3. There is a script defined here that will automatically look through
all of the artifacts in the `boot-images` bucket in S3 and finds the artifacts that no longer belong to

> a valid IMS image. There is a `--dry-run` option which will only list the artifacts found or without that
> option it will delete the orphaned artifacts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a valid IMS image. There is a `--dry-run` option which will only list the artifacts found; without that
option, the script will delete the orphaned artifacts.
```

Author: Fixed.

1. (`ncn-mw#`) Copy the script to a management node

  Create a file named `orphaned_artifacts.py` on a management node with the following text in it.

>   ```python

Reviewer: Recommend checking this script in directly, rather than having them copy/paste it.

Reviewer: If you go this route, you'll want to make sure to add a section to the top of the page to make sure the user updates their docs RPM first, to ensure they have the script. Something like this:
https://github.com/Cray-HPE/docs-csm/blob/9d6fabb7d36fe854667f652a66d43e711f7e6a07/operations/image_management/Exporting_and_Importing_IMS_Data.md?plain=1#L13-L16

Author: Fixed.

# Known Issue: IMS Images Orphaned in S3

There was an issue where image files larger than 5Gb were not correctly deleted from S3 when the image
was deleted through the IMS service. These artifacts are no longer referenced by IMS but are still
left in the S3 `boot-images` bucket and need to be deleted manually.

> This issue is resolved in CSM V1.6.1 and V1.7.0 and will not produce additional orphaned artifacts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This issue is resolved in CSM 1.6.1 and 1.7.0 and will not produce additional orphaned artifacts
```

Author: Fixed

> This issue was resolved in CSM V1.6.1 and V1.7.0 and will not produce additional artifacts after these

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This issue is resolved in CSM V1.6.1 and V1.7.0 and will not produce additional orphaned artifacts after these
```

Author: fixed

after these versions, but orphaned artifacts may still exist on the system from previous versions if
they have not been cleaned up.

## Prerequisites

- The latest CSM documentation RPM must be installed on the node where the procedure is being performed.
    - See [Check for latest documentation](../../update_product_stream/README.md#check-for-latest-documentation).

> - Ensure thre is an environment variable `CRAY_CREDENTIALS` pointing to an authentication token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ensure there is an environment variable `CRAY_CREDENTIALS` pointing to an authentication token.
```

Author: Fixed

    - See [Authenticate an Account with the Command Line](../../operations/security_and_authentication/Authenticate_an_Account_with_the_Command_Line.md).

## Fix

These items can be deleted out of S3. There is a script defined here that will automatically look through
all of the artifacts in the `boot-images` bucket in S3 and finds the artifacts that no longer belong to
a valid IMS image. There is a `--dry-run` option which will only list the artifacts found; without that
option the script will delete the orphaned artifacts.

> 1. (`ncn-mw#`) Run the script in `dry run` mode

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. (`ncn-mw#`) Run the script in `dry run` mode.
```

  Found: 02aa48c9-4376-4758-8f4c-09a6f4d46c13/rootfs, size: 21.770Gb
  Found: 02c4841d-3d0e-4af4-a869-1a542bf2bf39/rootfs, size: 19.955Gb
  Found: 039689b3-a1e8-432e-a058-c7973e2036d9/rootfs, size: 13.996Gb
  Found: 05b18508-387e-45c6-85c8-c2169ecac37f/rootfs, size: 19.689Gb
  Found: 06a2e527-607b-4703-bf1b-54c32aee4fb8/rootfs, size: 20.777Gb
  Found: 0773ed3f-9237-48f5-89b6-2e49855f6d76/rootfs, size: 21.643Gb
  Found: 079f6bce-d902-438a-8db7-bcb06a21d3de/rootfs, size: 13.995Gb
  Found: 09fb55d9-798e-41f7-b8d4-2f45a80c5e07/rootfs, size: 14.017Gb
  Found: 0c8a0db2-2403-41c6-85e5-5783e9c471b6/rootfs, size: 18.972Gb
  Found: 10a14e1c-4cbc-4197-9a5a-f133db5d3d25/rootfs, size: 21.643Gb
  Found: 11bde47f-8a41-469d-a6d6-dabdd8ce470f/rootfs, size: 5.957Gb
  Found: 12df4d6c-d5a1-4e4d-8973-64dedff63b98/rootfs, size: 12.100Gb
  Found: 142b8bfe-7f56-4385-ab20-1d4c176a447f/rootfs, size: 13.995Gb
  Found: 15387a19-f1b9-4e16-bd9f-17e229ef2360/rootfs, size: 14.419Gb
  Found: 160ce9fb-63a3-476b-926e-0f2a7baad65d/rootfs, size: 16.184Gb
  Found: 16a7f5cf-9c04-4396-84b7-13e0cd4674f1/rootfs, size: 20.740Gb
  Total orphaned: 303.84Gb
  ```

> 1. (`ncn-mw#`) Delete the orphaned artifacts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. (`ncn-mw#`) Delete the orphaned artifacts.
```
